Hello and welcome to the
first episode of the No Context
Cinema
Club, a show where an almost
unbelievably unqualified person
rewrites
film history by creating
plots based only on titles and the
true,
though sometimes
disingenuous, clues that I provide
him about the
real films.
Each week we'll explore Rob's
complete ignorance of film history,
testing the limits of what is
possible to have missed from pop
culture
during his 30-something years
on this planet, and hopefully having
some fun along the way.
There are two fundamental
rules.
Firstly, he's not allowed to
research or Google anything as we
go,
and secondly, once he's
locked something in in his plot,
there are
no takebacks.
Will Rob's alternative cuts
be works of cinematic genius, or
simply
descend into the insane
ramblings of a lunatic?
Only time will tell.
At the end of each episode,
I'll score Rob's efforts in three
areas
coherence, entertainment
factor, and originality.
For our first episode, we'll
be diving headlong into the 90s
action
classic, FaceOff.
So Rob, would you like to
introduce yourself and tell us a
little
bit about the origins of this
podcast?
Yes.
So a while back you uh
mentioned a film called FaceOff,
which we're
going to talk about today.
Um and you were humoured by
my initial thoughts about what the
film
was.
Um obviously I was incorrect
with my initial thoughts, and then
you obviously wanted me to
come onto a podcast with you so you
could
mock me generally about my
film knowledge.
Which is a very valuable and
insightful idea for the world of
podcasting.
Pretty much, yeah.
In our first section, which
we'll be calling plot luck, Rob has
nothing but the title to work
with.
So let's see what his initial
guesswork tells us about the new
director's
cut of faceoff.
So have you had any initial
thoughts on what face off might be
since
you first pitched what you
assumed it was?
So I I obviously know that my
original thought wasn't quite there.
So I've I've been thinking
about what face-off could be.
I've got two thoughts about
what it could be.
Uh the first one, uh, which
was my initial reaction, was based
on
my knowledge of your love for
ice hockey.
So when you mentioned face
off, my initial thought was that it
was
an ice hockey-based film.
You laughed quite a lot about
that.
So then my second thought was
that it was some sort of film where
a character loses their face,
referencing uh the office, Dwight
Shroots, has a face peeled
off and then put onto his face at
one
point.
I am familiar with the
episode in which that happens.
That I think is more of a
reference to a film than a reference
from
the office.
But we'll let that no, we'll
let's explore that for a second.
So Dwight takes the face off
the Rosussi dummy, doesn't he?
Yep.
In the episode, and then says
he always wonders how realistic it
is to do that.
I think that's probably
referencing the silence of the lambs
with
Anthony Hopkins, but it's
also possibly a reference to the
Texas
Chainsaw Massacre, I suppose,
because there's a character called
Leatherface in that who takes
a face off.
So either way, I mean I'm
happy with that.
Um I'm referencing a TV show,
which is referencing a film which
I'm unaware of.
That is brilliant, I would
say a fair, fair summary of the
situation,
yes.
Yep.
Okay, right.
So which of those avenues
shall we exploit?
To be honest, because it was
your first thought, I think even
though
we subsequently know it's not
correct, I'd quite like to follow
the ice hockey theme if you
were happy, but we can we can go
with
the take taking a face off a
person if you prefer.
I I feel like I've fleshed
out the ice hockey film more in my
mind,
and obviously it was only an
immediate reaction.
And I I reckon I reckon
there's a film there that we could
talk
about, even if it doesn't
exist.
Okay, well, it doesn't exist.
Um let's do this.
Okay, so the film in in which
we're working on here is going to
be an ice hockey-based film.
Have you got any thoughts
about the plot other than it's about
ice
hockey?
Well, all films that are
about sport have a very similar
story arc,
and that is that there is
some sort of crisis, whether it's a
a
school or a club in crisis or
an individual in crisis, and then
it's basically just
redemption arc from there.
So I think overall it's going
to be a redemption story, but it's
a redemption story for an
individual.
Okay.
Uh have you got any thoughts
on the individual, the protagonist
of this particular story?
Yep, I don't know the actor's
name.
Oh, yeah, okay.
So what we will find over the
course of this podcast is that I
also
don't know many many actors
and what they're in.
I've got a weird word
association when it comes to film
and actors
that I just think of random
things and then or I associate them
with random things, and
that's what I'll refer to.
So the actor, I've got I've
got a lead actor for the film.
I don't know his name, so
you're gonna have to help me with
that.
I'll try.
He is the guy that is in
Jurassic Park with is the bigger guy
that
wears a yellow jacket in the
rain.
Oh, out in the rain, okay.
Yeah, he's the guy that uh
ends up getting eaten on the toilet.
Does he?
He I think he does.
I mean, I haven't seen
Jurassic Park for a while, but I'm
fairly
sure.
So the guy, I know who you're
talking about.
Um, and he is a guy, he was
in Seinfeld, I think, and a comedy
called
Third Rock from the Sun as
Officer Don.
But anyway, go on.
He's he's also in Cool
Runnings.
He okay, he's not also in
Cool Runnings.
He is, is is the coach in
Cool Runnings?
Uh that's John Candy, who is
another fat guy.
Ah, right.
Okay.
So I've mixed up my uh my
Hollywood fat guys.
I I think you might have.
Okay, right, but so John so
John Candy in Cool Runnings, which
is
a sport film which features a
redemption arc for the main
character.
I can see where this has uh
sort of crept into your
consciousness
because yeah, John Candy in
that film in Cool Runnings is a
disgraced
Bob Slay coach who cheated
when he himself was in the Winter
Olympics.
Right.
So something that we should
worry about is that my ice hockey
film
is pretty much that.
Well, I mean, there's similar
there's ice, uh there's a
redemption.
There's not even ice for the
character.
But I but I you know I think
we can work with this.
I mean, in face off, you want
John you want either John Candy or
offers a don from Third Rock
from the Sun who also uh gets wears
a big yellow jacket in the
rain in Jackson.
I'm sure I'm sure the guy in
uh in Colour Runnings wears a yellow
jacket.
I know he wears a big duffel.
In okay.
Have you watched Home Alone
recently, Rob?
Yep, love Home Alone.
Okay.
I think John Candy wears a
yellow jacket in his short cameo
appearance
in Home Alone when he is, was
he, uh I can't remember the name of
it, but he goes, Polka,
polka, polka.
He's the polka singer.
The back of the van.
I think they all wear yellow
jackets, don't they?
Um his polka outfit who was
trying to get back to Milwaukee or
something
like that.
Is the guy in the back of the
van the guy from Jurassic Park or
Cool Runnings?
Cool Runnings.
That's John Candy in both.
So you want him.
He is my main man.
Sorry, guy from Third Rock
from the Sun, and I think Seinfeld,
and
I don't know your name, I'm
afraid, but John Candy has just
beaten
you to it in the final
casting to be the protagonist of
Rob's new
film Face Off.
But don't worry, John Candy
will be very used to the role
because
he's played it already in
Cool Runnings by the sound of it.
Although he was much more
alive when that was made than he is
currently.
Immediate casting issues.
Yeah, yes.
What I will say is I I was
thinking coming into this that my
film
knowledge was below average,
but my TV knowledge was better than
average.
Okay.
So my um my references are
gonna be poor at this point, I
think.
Well, I mean let's explore.
So we've got John Candy
playing the role of what?
Uh obviously based in
America.
Of course, if it's well, or
Canada maybe if it's I mean, John
Candy
was Canadian, I believe.
So you know, you could be
Canadian.
No, America.
We're going to Hollywood,
yeah.
We're going, yeah, we're
going to the big screen, so we're at
Hollywood,
why not?
He's some sort of teacher.
Okay.
I don't know if he's lower
school or middle school.
I don't know what they call
lower school over in the States.
I don't know.
Elementary, is it?
Elementary, but they're
probably too young to be doing much
ice
hockey stuff with a
redemption arc.
He is a coach at a middle
school ice hockey team.
And here's the twist: he used
to be big time.
Did he?
He used to be big time.
Did he skate in the Olympics?
Like he did in Garchomp.
I'm assuming that's a
reference to Gorin's.
No, he didn't used to.
He was on the verge of
becoming um uh a National Hockey
League coach.
Was he?
Yep.
So he was on the on the cusp
of NHL stardom.
As a coach, not as a player.
Uh yeah, as a coach, he's a
big guy.
He's not gonna be an amazing
hockey player.
Okay, well he could have been
a goon.
You know, he could have been
a guy on skates who just goes out to
pummel people.
Yeah, I like I like that.
No, no, he's not that.
He's he was on the verge of
becoming a successful NHL coach.
Okay, right, and now he finds
himself in high school or middle
school,
whatever you said.
Yeah, yeah, but not in a
school that's in Canada.
I don't want that.
I don't want him in a cold
state.
Okay, he is in a warm state.
He's in I want to say
Florida.
Okay, yeah, that's maybe
wearing a nice uh nice sort of uh um
palm
tree shirt to the games.
Okay, so he's he's wearing
his sort of flamboyant some
somewhere
not known for the hockey.
Okay, well, I mean the
Florida Panthers won the Stanley Cup
very
recently.
So this is the problem that
your knowledge of hockey is better
than
mine as well, so it's gonna
follow me here.
So somewhere where it's got
him in New Mexico.
Perfect.
Lovely.
He's in New Mexico.
Is there a desert in New
Mexico or that's the case?
I think it's basically a
giant desert, really.
I think New Mexico.
It's where Breaking Bad was
set, if you've ever heard of that.
I've heard of it, I've
watched some of it.
Again, I thought my TV
knowledge was better than my
knowledge, but
maybe I'm incorrect on that
one.
It is somewhere I I feel a
bit deserty, a bit Arizona, maybe
somewhere
around Phoenix.
Alright, we're going for
Phoenix.
I think they just lost their
hockey team.
Uh they got re-uh, don't
forget, re-franchised somewhere.
I went to Utah, I think,
another desert, but this is middle
school.
Okay, yeah, that's true.
This isn't Hockey League,
this is middle school.
Okay, but the youngsters
could be devastated that their NHL
team,
their local NHL team have
just left, and that was their
pathway
to success.
This is based in the same
year that Space Jam was I've no idea
what
it was when there was.
I don't know.
I mean the Space Jam feels
like a late, no, maybe a mid-90s
film
to me.
Maybe the reason being is
Space Jam.
I remember in the serial you
used to get the little toys and the
Space Jam toys.
Right.
There's gonna be toys for
this film.
There's gonna be toys in the
series and some merchandise.
Little hockey pucks.
Little pucks with the team,
whatever they're gonna be.
Yeah, the New Mexico.
Yeah, we'll probably focus on
the team next rather than the
freebies
that are given out.
Okay, right.
So he's coaching in New
Mexico.
Yep.
Okay, what has I mean, what
has been this terrible thing that he
needs redemption from?
Not sure yet.
Okay, he's definitely done
something which has shamed himself,
and
he's essentially on the run
in hiding, and he's not been able to
take his his amazing job up
at the NHL, and he's he's had to go
and the only job he can get
is uh a really down on its look
middle
school hockey team in
Arizona.
Okay, a ragtag bunch of
misfits.
Yeah, nobody wants to play
hockey, they're all they're all out
enjoying
the the desert, I suppose.
Doing whatever you do in the
desert, chasing cactuses or
something.
But famously difficult to
catch.
He doesn't want to be there,
and the hockey team.
I've got a vague reference of
something I've seen on TikTok where
a basketball coach goes and
he causes a bit of trouble at the
school
he goes to, it's a
high-flying basketball team, and he
he comes
and messes things up by
requiring certain grade point
averages and
stuff like that.
He's a little bit like that.
That is Coach Carter.
I think you're probably
referencing there with Samuel L.
Jackson as as the as the main
coach who won't accept any ill
discipline
from his from his team.
Is Samuel L.
Jackson bold in the film?
He I believe Samuel L.
Jackson is bold in every film
and life.
In that case, it might be
okay.
Right, so what was what was
his crime?
Was there a crime?
Yeah, fraud, obviously.
Fraud, okay.
Defrauded the hockey team.
Um I don't know, he was
dodging his taxes.
Dodging his taxes, okay.
No, probably shouldn't on the
first episode alienate all
Americans.
No.
Um, he is dodging some sort
of taxes or fraud, um, and he's been
dragged into a he's he's a
nice guy, but he has been found to
be
guilty for this.
Okay, and now he finds
himself down on his luck in the
middle of
the desert, trying to coach a
ragtag bunch of misfits who have no
interest in playing ice
hockey.
That's what we're going with.
Yep.
In our next section called
The Plot Thickens, I'll be feeding
Rob
some more information about
the real film face-off, um, which
he's
going to be forced to include
within his own already slightly
derivative
plot.
So here we go.
The first thing I've got for
you, Rob, is that in the real film
face-off, the hero does
assume a new identity.
Right, okay.
So my main character who is
played by John Candy.
By John Candy.
Uh it's a coincidence that
because he's called John in the film
as well.
That's helpful.
That's what I'm saying.
He's called John in the film
now, but he wasn't when the film
first
started.
So because he's got to assume
a new identity.
Correct.
So um what I didn't say in
the first section was that actually
that
it's quite a bit of court
case he's going through, and as part
of
that, he's under a bit of
pressure.
So part of his move to uh
Phoenix, Arizona, um is part of the
witness
protection programme,
actually.
So he's taken up a totally
new life.
So he's obviously working
through his skill sets that he's
got,
but um, he has left his whole
life behind and he's now called
John.
Now called John.
Right, we don't know what he
was called before.
That's okay, we don't need to
worry about that.
He's in witness protection.
Why would we know what he was
called before?
Right.
Uh can I just clarify, we're
in Phoenix, Arizona, aren't we?
I said New Mexico earlier.
You weren't happy with that.
No, we moved him to Phoenix,
Arizona, that's all good.
I I know more about Phoenix
because I once flew out of there, so
that feels like it should be
that, and it's definitely hot.
It is very hot in Phoenix,
Arizona.
Okay, perfect.
So John is now in Phoenix,
Arizona.
He's under witness protection
for some sort of financial
fraud-based
activities in his previous
life.
Something to do with the NHL.
Something to do, oh okay,
right.
So it's a potentially a big
story, is it?
Yeah, so do you remember back
in the 90s when Premier League
managers
were accused of tapping up
players?
Oh, yes, of course.
He was doing that, but with
sponsors and he was taking
kickbacks.
He was he was found guilty of
taking kickbacks, but there was a
lot of money involved, and
people went missing.
It got a little bit a little
bit dirty, a little bit nasty, and
that's when he was uh
relocated.
Hang about.
Can you guys can you guilty?
Why is he in witness
protection?
Can you be guilty of the
city?
Why is he in witness
protection then?
If he's already been found
guilty of this crime?
Sorry, there's an ongoing
trial.
He's presumed guilty.
You misspoke.
Misspoke, yeah.
Like he probably did in
court, I imagine.
He's a nervous guy.
Um he is under a trial and
there's risk to his life, and for
that
reason he's in witness
protection while under suspicion.
Well, under suspicion, so
maybe he's done it, maybe he hasn't.
Yeah, but we all know he's
guilty.
Okay, we know he's alright,
fine.
It's it's clear in his arc
that he has to so far, yeah.
Okay, alright.
So that explains why uh the
hero gets a new identity.
That's good.
Um I've got a quote from uh
face off that I picked up when I
rewatched
it last week for this.
Um in this he actually says
when all else fails, fresh tactics.
Perfect.
And this fits right into the
rest of the film.
Because what we've not talked
about is actually his day-to-day job
in Phoenix or or what he does
on a day-to-day basis.
He's obviously gone to this
middle school and he's started to
coach
them ice hockey.
They're not very keen on it,
obviously, they're in the middle of
a desert, they don't have an
ice hockey rink, he has to do
fundraisers.
I'm I'm thinking this too as
I'm talking about.
They don't have a ring, he
has to do fundraisers.
How have they given him a
job?
Why have they taken him on as
a coach?
They're a high school who've
just got funding for an ice hockey
team, and he has to go and
help raise more funds to build a
rink
and start the program kit and
all that.
So he has to get the kids on
board, he has to convince the school
they need to go bigger and
better, the parents can't be
bothered.
Wow.
That's where his starting
point was.
But he's actually a really
good coach.
Okay, right.
So he is a genuinely good
coach.
Yeah, he's a genuinely good
coach, which is why he was targeted
targeted by the blinking
thieves earlier.
So for the benefit of the
listeners, uh Rob just sort of shook
his
fist in a in a in a very
dramatic way that sadly was will
never
be caught on the podcast
itself.
But he he's obviously very
clued up and he gets the team
playing
quite well.
Um and he's got a bit of a
love interest that's that he meets
one
of the teachers maybe there.
Okay.
Um, and you can see there's a
bit of a relationship blossoming
between
the two.
Um he's bringing these.
He's not gonna let that he's
not gonna let her down, is he?
Well, he's a nice guy, Kevin.
He's doing really well.
He's he's brought the
community together.
You they've gone from having
nothing to that they can't wait for
Thursday night when they play
ice hockey.
Okay, but I sort of feel like
in these sorts of films, and you
don't
have to go with this because
it's your movie, in these sorts of
films, there's often a point
where he has to, I don't know,
balance
the interests of the team or
himself versus the the burgeoning
love
interest.
Oh yeah, there's because
she's only free on Thursday nights.
Okay.
Did I imagine she she worked?
But but he is starting the
programme, so arguably he could just
move the tank.
There's availability of the
other teams and whatever, and it's
Thursday
night league hockey night.
Of course.
And obviously she And it's
the only it's the only day that the
as
yet unbuilt rink is free.
Yeah, it's very, very, very
busy.
Uh, but also uh her son is on
the hockey team.
Oh damn, he is not very good.
Oh, he he was first round of
like the the call he was dropped.
Right, well we're we're
fleshing out the story quite nicely.
Yeah, I would like you to
explain why the movie starts with a
very
lengthy sort of 15-minute
runway chase and shootout, if you
could.
Yeah, obviously.
It's quite the curved part.
A 15-minute review.
Yeah, it's it's a it lasts
about 15 minutes.
I mean, probably the runway
part is about 10 minutes and then
there's
five minutes.
You you need to rewatch the
film, Kev, because I that doesn't
happen
in this version of FaceOff.
That's fine.
I have it doesn't happen in
this version.
It does happen in this
version of FaceOff, actually.
I don't know if you've seen
the um opening to Toy Story 2, I
believe.
That's the one with the
prospector guy, the smelly
prospector guy
train.
Maybe so the opening scene of
FaceOff, I nearly forgot the name
of the screen.
Is a very dramatic
reenactment of a plane landing and a
gunfight
around the plane, but it's
actually John and his love interest
son
playing with his toys.
So we kind of meet them
midway.
I now I remember the the
story or the part of Toy Story 2
that you're
referencing now.
It might be Toy Story 2, it
might be Toy Story 3.
Um if you need any more film,
just let me know.
It all goes back there in
there.
That's right, it's quite an
elaborate opening sequence, and then
it turns out it's just um
Andy or something playing with his
toys.
Right.
So the next the next part of
information I've got for you um is
going to involve a relatively
lengthy impression.
And I'd just like to point
out now that I'm doing an impression
as a stylistic or kind of
artistic choice, and it's in no way
related
to uh a basic lack of
understanding of intellectual
property law.
Um I've genuinely never been
this excited.
I didn't know we were doing
impression.
Well, I mean, get ready.
Um I would like to point out
so in actuality, and I I'm not gonna
say too much about the actual
film of Face Off, but it is possibly
one of the most outrageously
overacted movies that I have ever
seen.
You might have seen The Mask,
surely you've seen the mask with Jim
Carrey.
Yeah.
Okay.
In that, he's very
deliberately overacting, yeah?
Yeah.
So in this, they're just
acting like that.
Uh but anyway, so I've got a
quote for you, and I think I think
we were able to easily and
seamlessly fit in this in, but here
we
go.
You're asking me to break the
law, risk my neck, and you're asking
me to put in the dark all the
people that love me and trust me.
I'll do it.
Uh, where does that fit into
the film?
Firstly, I am flawed by that
act, which is great.
Well, thank you.
I mean, I th I think this is
pretty obvious where it fits into
the
film.
It's um it obviously calls
back to the initial court case
that's
going on, and obviously we
know he's got a new love interest,
but
he has left loved ones
behind, not necessarily a partner,
but he
has left friends and family
and and ex-colleagues, and they're
obviously
embroiled in some of their
fraudulent issues that he's facing
um
that cost him his job in the
NHL.
Yeah, okay.
Well, I mean, and once again,
I'm just gonna dive back to the
original
face-off because this really
stood out for me, that quote, um,
just
with a pure, complete level
of selfishness, where he only talks
about all the people that
love me and trust me, and he doesn't
make
any reference to his own
feelings about them whatsoever.
It's all about oh, you're
asking me to do this to the people
who
love me.
Um, not to the people he
loves, but the people who love him.
So he's I think he's got a
slightly selfish side.
Um, how do we square that
circle?
I I think your painting,
John, is quite a one-dimensional
character
there.
I think actually the move,
the big the move to the big city, to
the movement to Phoenix, has
actually brought out a softer side,
and he's actually more of a
community man.
So he's obviously learnt his
lesson from uh his his past trials,
I'd imagine.
Okay, all right.
Well, I mean it it fits.
So we've managed to put in
some genuine details from FaceOp
into
your film almost seamlessly.
Um, there have there there
are a couple more that we could
throw
in there if you like.
Would you like to explain,
for example, why at one point he
then
says, Dress up like
Halloween, and ghouls will try to
get.
Your pants.
You got everything for that.
That is left field.
When you started talking
about dress up for Halloween, I was
I was
obviously going to refer back
to some of the fundraising the
school
did, but uh Ghoul's getting
in his pants is a bit of a left
field
um introduction.
I suppose he's he's obviously
he's obviously talking to his new
love interest.
Of course, of course.
He's uh he's trying to tell
her the problems he's going through,
but it is in the the the the
law, the the the law issues he's got
the legal issues he's got.
So it's a metaphor.
He's trying to tell her that
how much he's struggling without
telling
her he's in witness
protection.
And that is his way of of
expressing his so is he currently
dressing
up like Halloween?
He's always dressing because
he's having in the film, he's just
constantly dressed up as a
zombie in scene one later, he comes
back
and like a decapitated head.
No, it's just it's just
obviously the the uh is his witness
protection
bit him dressed up like
Halloween.
Absolutely, I like it.
So you're getting into this
now, and the ghouls that are trying
to get in in his pack.
Oh, the lawyers who are
coming after him in his career.
He's he is a yeah, you would
feel he's a deep character.
He is a deep character.
He's very deep, John Candy,
in this film.
Probably the deepest role
that John Candy would ever have
played.
I only know Home Alone and
Jurassic Park, so I agree.
And cool runnings.
Cool runnings and not
Jurassic Park, as I found out.
Okay, alright.
So that works.
One more then.
And I think this will be
easy.
He does spend a spell of
face-off in a maximum security
prison.
Does he?
He does.
Well, John Candy doesn't
think he's not in it, but but
maximum security.
What do you have to do to go
to maximum security?
It's probably some sort of uh
unspecified financial fraud in the
NHL, I think.
Witness protection worthy.
Um so so I I've harked back
to him, the opening scene of him
being
on playing with his uh
playing with the plane and on the
runway.
Well, that's where we
actually start the film, but we do
have flashbacks
to his previous time and part
of his struggles and part of the
depth
of John as a character is
that all the way through he's got
this
real positive surge of energy
coming from the middle school and
his new love interest, and
everything that's going well in his
life.
It's really working out.
He's turned a corner.
He's found his calling.
Absolutely, you'd say so.
Although he still he still
harks back to his days of of
potential
glory and getting to the big
time.
So he still harbours
ambitions to return to the NHL.
Absolutely, but he can never
do that again because of his
situation.
We do get flashbacks uh when
he's really struggling, and I think
he's probably got an
underlying drink problem.
Of course he does.
And when he's when he's had a
bit too many, uh a few too many, uh,
these callbacks to his
previous uh his previous life, and
once he
was arrested for his fraud,
he was obviously taken to prison.
And and you as a you as a
viewer, you're watching it thinking,
you
just want him to get better,
uh his mental health, so we can we
can really make the most of
his new life down in Phoenix.
Okay, well, I mean I mean I
think that's that you know all fits.
It's a beautiful film we're
constructing here.
I don't think it's much like
the original, um, but that's okay.
I'm not going to ask you to
shoehorn in a chemical weapon that
threatens
LA.
Because although we're in the
right sort of part of the USA for
it, I feel like that might be
a step too far.
Um, I would like to explore
why you think this film would be
called
face off.
I know that I get there's the
ice hockey bit, but presumably
there's
something a bit deeper as to
why it's called face-off.
Um it sounds like maybe there
isn't much.
Um I mean, is the court case
unresolved?
Yes, it's ongoing.
So is is the face-off
actually a legal face-off as well?
Um I I actually just prefer
the hockey.
So hockey starting a new
life, start of a new game.
Okay.
Well then so what I suppose
really the next question is how does
this film end?
Like you said.
Like what what are we
building to?
Because generally speaking, a
story has has some form of
resolution,
whether or not it's happy,
that you know, that's that's kind of
by the way, and you're the uh
you're the director here.
So what are we building
towards?
And and this film is
heartbreaking.
Oh, is it it's heartbreaking
because we've talked about the
success
he's having all the way
through his new life in Phoenix.
And we know there's an
ongoing court case, and that court
case actually
finds him innocent.
So he didn't he didn't
actually he didn't do any of the
stuff.
And this is the big moral
dilemma on the last on the last
scene,
the last few scenes is his
mini his team's hockey.
Oh no, they haven't reached a
final.
I promise they've reached a
But it's on the same day as
the big trial.
Oh, of course.
And he has got to choose does
he want to continue with his new
life,
little league hockey team,
yeah, his new love interest, or does
he want to go back and clear
his name?
Right.
His one chance to do that.
One chance, one shot, and
potentially get back in the big time
in
NHL.
Wow, that's that's quite the
dilemma.
Um, what's what's he gonna
do?
Oh, that's another reason
it's called face-off, then, surely.
Obviously, but you know, it's
it's this, you know, real
head-to-head
dilemma.
He is facing off against his
past.
past quite literally.
Right now, I understand where
you've been coming from all along,
Director Rob.
And the twist that nobody saw
coming is that he goes back for the
court case, he's found him to
the city.
Good.
That time, no bloody pitch.
His selfish undertones uh
come through, right?
Well, I mean, we did today,
right?
Well, I mean, you know, that
that quote about all of his loved
ones,
or sorry, all the ones who
love him.
Exactly.
He's not worried about anyone
else.
It's all about John.
All about John, and he
ditches them, he leaves into the
final.
They're going to lose, by the
way.
Good.
The community is heartbroken.
He goes back to the big
trial.
Obviously, now everyone else
who was putting him at risk is no
longer
involved and he's found.
So they go down.
Yeah, they go down, so he
doesn't need to be in witness
protection
anymore.
He's found totally innocent.
And never goes back to never
goes back to innocent.
Never goes back to Phoenix.
Brutal.
Totally forgets.
The love interest.
Yeah, can't even remember a
name.
The kid who's who he was
playing with a plain runway chase
action
thing right at the start.
Yeah, we don't know what
happens to him.
We do just no further
reference to Phoenix in the whole
film.
Savage.
Does does he Okay?
He just doesn't care.
He doesn't care.
And actually, we want him to
get better, we want his mental
health
to get better, we want him to
stop drinking, and he does care if
his mental health is loads
better, he stops drinking.
He leaves a trail of
destruction across the whole of
Arizona, but
he gets back to his position
to further his career and be a big
time hockey coach.
And and are we as the
audience supposed to feel a
particular way
about that, or is that that
really is oh is really the cut
through
the crux of it is the rugged
thing.
The rug has been pulled from
under your feet.
You've gone from wanting him
to be a success, wanting the best
room,
and really thinking that he's
going to make the most of it with
Phoenix to not caring what
happens to him.
And it is about the cutthroat
reality of being a top elite sports
coach in the US.
That was what it was all
about, really.
That's what it's all about,
and a little bit about Phoenix.
And some children are getting
heartbroken along the way.
Well, okay.
Um, well, I think we've sort
of reached the the the kind of the
point where where we've
effectively lost the plot.
Uh tell me that's not like
every sports film in Hollywood
you've
ever seen.
Well, it's it's quite
derivative in a number of areas, but
I feel
like the ending, I mean, he's
gone and he's cleared his name and
he's left the team.
He doesn't reappear at the
11th hour for kind of a in the final
period he turns up and
they're all looking his way and
they're pleased
or anything like that.
Nope.
They maybe they keep looking
for him, and we're expecting as an
audience, we're expecting him
to walk in the tunnel, but instead
he's just gone to the bar.
No, I don't know.
There's I like that, and then
actually he's is just at an NHL
game.
Yeah, just sitting he's been
shmoozed by the CEO of some uh
hockey
team and he's gonna get his
job back.
Nice, hot dog on a beer, sat
back.
And that the only time the
people from Phoenix ever see him
again
is on the TV.
Wow, brutal.
Yeah.
So, well, as I said,
derivative in many ways, but I think
the ending
probably wouldn't be a
classic sort of happy ending there.
But I quite like the way
you've reimagined face off.
I suppose now it comes down
to the scoring, which starts with
this.
We did talk about the three
particular areas where we'd be
scoring,
and they were coherence.
I mean, it it does actually
plausibly fit together quite nicely.
There is no plot holes.
Name one plot hole.
I mean, the the the ghouls in
your pants Halloween bit is a bit
tenuous.
I'm really not sure about the
made-up plain start because that
that
that feels like it belongs in
a story where actually he does end
up having some value or
meaning for the child.
Or a reference to the ghouls
in his past.
Yeah, I can I get that.
He just misread the script.
It was nothing to do with
ghouls trying to get into your
pants.
It was the ghouls trying to
get into your past.
Thank you.
There we go.
That clarifies that.
Well, in which case the
coherence score can shoot right up.
Um I I think you did a very
good job actually of shoehorning in
a whole bunch of different
things.
I did pick some quite
friendly elements.
15-minute plane battle.
Yeah, well, you know.
But also, that's why I feel
that it lacks a bit of coherence
because
I just don't see that they
would have had a 15-minute section
of
that in the film if it was
really such a trivial part.
So I'm going to score you six
for coherence.
Out of what?
Uh 10.
Everything's going to be
arbitrary out of.
I don't know what I'm going
to no, I'm going to make it seven.
I'll give you seven for
coherence on it.
Because actually, there was
there was a there was a redemption
arc.
It didn't end quite how I
expected.
Um, but that's good.
Entertainment factor.
It depends on how good the
action scene is at the start, to be
honest.
Um I think uh Rubbish, okay.
Well, you haven't really
solved it.
Um what about the the sort of
it is it an emotional tugs at the
heartstrings in the in the
main element of it?
I can see that it would be
quite uh emotionally engaging
watching
his redemption arc.
I think you're
underestimating the fun that could
be have that could
be had fundraising for a new
hockey rink and the I think that
would
be a very dry butt mini
montage uh fundraising fundraising
and selling
cookies from the back of uh
schoolyards and stuff like that.
Okay, I I would have thought
maybe the the montages would maybe
be more ice hockey based and
about no, there's there's actually
very little of hockey than I
didn't really see any of the game.
Yeah, they don't I'm I'm not
even sure they raise the funds for
a rink.
How do they make it to the
final?
Let's not worry about how
they make it to the final because
that's
we're just gonna lose
coherence if we if we do that.
Entertainment factors.
You have lowered that
massively by focusing on the
sponsorship angle.
So, entertainment factor, I'm
going with five.
And you're and you're lucky
to get five, frankly.
Um, originality.
Oh, can I score this?
Go on, because I've watched
very few films, and this is.
And all of them are
referenced in this one.
All of them are referenced in
this one, and it is a solid three.
There is nothing in there
that hasn't happened in Hollywood
before.
Well, no, but I mean we're
we're not gonna hold you to that
sort
of start.
You know, I don't think
you're gonna have to be any any sort
of
Guillermo del Toro.
Not that you know that
doesn't matter.
Okay, well, I would I'll I'll
give you four for original just
because
the curveball at the end
where he never goes back.
You we're expecting, you
know, if it follows the standard
tropes
of a kind of sports coach
little league kind of thing, he goes
back
and they win the game
somehow, or at least he goes back
and consoles
them and they all learn a
lesson, but instead he just cuts
them
off.
Um which is brutal, but I but
quite original.
Um so let's let's hit that
for a five.
A five?
Yeah, five.
What's in total?
Uh I've already forgotten
what the other numbers were.
Brilliant.
Adherence, I think maybe
seven entertainment five and
originality
five.
So you've got seventeen.
I say we're for half marks.
That is 17 out of 30.
A high bar.
It is well, it's it's a
generous bar.
We'll call it a generous bar.
For next week, it's it's
gonna get we're doing this again.
Uh well, maybe how many films
do you know about?
I know about quite a few.
The real question is how many
films could I find that you don't
know enough about, I suppose.
A lot.
Um the the next one,
actually, on my mind, and I don't
know how
much you know about this
film, is a film called Goodwill
Hunting.
Any any sort of knowledge of
that?
I've got no knowledge.
Okay, perfect.
So that's what I've got an
initial reaction.
Oh.
Would you care to share any
of that?
Do you want to know my
initial reaction to that?
Or should we save that?
We'll save that for next
time.
time, otherwise people will think
it's
all scripted and we wouldn't
want that, would we?
Um at least that's what it
says in the script here.
Right, okay, so I think we've
we've covered face off um in the no
context cinema club, and I I
really quite enjoyed it.
So 17 out of 30, not a bad
start to your directorial career.
I mean, that is what top 50
on IMDB must be.
You know about IMDb, do you?
Yeah, I googled it before.
Okay, excellent.
Love that.
Okay, right.
So we will uh we'll call
we'll call an end to face off then.
Okay.
Um, and thank you very much.
We'll see you next time.
See you later.
So, Kev.
Now, we've just spent the
last half an hour or so talking
about
my lack of knowledge about
films.
But I I actually think my
lack of knowledge about films is
just
is just because I've just not
got any interest in films as such.
Okay.
So I think it's just a normal
lack of knowledge.
It's not special.
I don't know.
I would argue it's it's a gap
in pretty pretty mainstream pop
culture.
I disagree.
I I don't think many people
know about FaceOff.
I I well, okay.
We'll maybe we'll find that
out.
So so anyway, I I think my
lack of knowledge will be subsequent
to your lack of knowledge in
in some pretty pop culture things.
Okay, alright.
So I I've begged you for a
section at the end of the podcast to
try and I don't know exactly
what the section is going to be.
And it's gonna be unscripted.
Okay, well, good.
Yeah, good.
And it's gonna be different
probably every time we do it.
Okay.
But I've got a little quiz
for you about something which I
think
is incredibly popular, which
I don't think you'll know about.
Okay, all right.
And that's Doctor Who.
Uh okay then, yes, you're
correct.
So I've got three questions
which I think have entered the
public
consciousness in the last two
decades.
Okay, so 20 years of Doctor
Who distilled to three questions.
I think Doctor Who rebooted
in 2007.
Not sure.
A lot of people will probably
disagree with that.
It might have been a bit
earlier than that.
Was it Christopher Eccleston
playing the doctor?
I'm worried that you know
that.
He is not one of my
questions.
Okay, well, good, good, good.
But I reckon over the last
two decades or so, these three
things
have entered public
consciousness.
Okay.
And I want I want to
basically prove to you that you've
got as much
of a gap with TV shows as I
do with films.
Alright.
Just in three questions, I'm
not gonna make you write a whole
plot.
So, question one, and this is
multiple choice.
Oh, okay.
Well, do I do I have to have
the options?
I will give you the options.
Okay, alright.
Um, what is the name of the
doctor's time machine?
You don't have to have the
options.
That's the TARDIS.
Oh, worrying.
So that no is it you would
think I would not know that.
They get more difficult.
I knew you'd know that.
Good, of course.
It's an easy warm up.
What were your options that
you'd written for that?
Don't worry about that.
TARDIS, TADAS, and TADAS.
Okay, um, so that's question
one.
So you have a base.
Do you know what TANDIS
stands for?
Of course I do.
Time and relative dimensions.
Oh, dimensions in space, is
it?
Alright, there we go.
So that's Are you worried
now?
I'm a little bit worried.
We got close.
Five out of six don't matter.
I'm glad I'm glad that um
question two is a little bit more
difficult.
So in Matt Smith's first
episode of The Doctor, what bizarre
food
combination is he craving
during his regeneration?
I've got I've got multiple
choices.
Yeah, I'm gonna need that.
So is it apple pie and gravy?
Oh fish fingers and custard,
or pancakes and tomato soup.
Okay, that is this is gonna
be pure guesswork, but it's a
British
film.
Well the officers.
I'm sorry, a British TV
series, you're right, yeah.
Apple pie and gravy, fish
fingers and custard, or pancakes
with
tomato soup.
Well, if it's a little curve
ball thrown in for the American
audience,
because I think I'm right in
saying that they talk about biscuits
and gravy or gravy and
biscuits, and that's like an apple
thing
with not gravy with something
else, but that's what Americans call
it.
So I'm gonna take that.
And you are very wrong.
Ah crap.
Which is great for me because
it proves my point.
Well, it That's a bit niche,
but alright.
It's not so it's fish,
fingers, and custard.
Right, and and how has that
entered the collective conversation?
How many people if if I went
up to them in the street and said
uh,
what did Matt Smith crave
when in his first episode
regenerating
as Doctor Who?
How many people, if you
walked to talk to them on the street
and
asked them about face-off,
would be able to quote or or
reference
it?
I think way more than we
would see on the street.
This is a good conjecture,
isn't it?
Yeah.
So so that is if you go on
Etsy, by the way, and search Doctor
Who,
you can get Fish, Fingers,
and Custard on everything.
Oh, okay, alright.
So it's a thing.
It's not just me.
Fish, fingers, and custard.
It's quite a big thing.
So question three, and this
is the last one, it's multiple
choice
again.
So this is around the highest
rated episode on of Doctor Who
according
to IMDB users.
Call back to before.
This is when I had to Google
IMDb.
That's why you're on IMDb,
then.
So um the Doctor, this is a
question about the highest rated
episode.
So the doctor sends a cryptic
message back through time to help
his friends survive an
encounter with the weeping angels.
What is his key instruction?
Is it stay in the light?
Is it avoid mirrors, or is it
don't blink?
Or weeping angels.
Stay in the light.
I can believe that would
work.
Avoid mirrors.
And the third one's blink.
Don't blink.
Weeping angels.
I will go with stay in the
light, please.
And again, you're wrong.
This is great news for me.
Terrible.
So I got 17 out of 30, which
was way over 50%, and you've got one
out of three, which is under
50%.
So I think it's kind of
proved my point that my knowledge
isn't
as bad as potentially you
think it is.
Well, I think that our
lengthy exploration of face off
suggests
otherwise.
But we can find out next time
when by the sounds of it, we might
be exploring Goodwill Hunting
instead.
I am looking forward to it.
Excellent.
Well, thank you very much for
your time.
Bye.